Don't mind, I'll go on.
We're talking to Charles.
It promotes your name for me, sir.
Yes, I'm Charles Paul Haber.
I'm the director of the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley.
Before we start, are you familiar with the new video that the Commission of Reservation and Access has just released?
Here?
In Washington.
No.
You know, they did a video about
10 years ago, 15 years ago, on what they called slow fires and the problem of preservation and what was going to happen if we didn't face up to the acidification problem with the crumbling of all of these books printed roughly after 1850.
They've done another similar thing, also directed by the same person, Terry Sanders,
And it is precisely on the digital library, the Library of the Future.
Okay.
And who would they contact to get with?
Well, it's the Commission on Preservation and Access in Washington.
And they work under whose auspices?
They are an independent, they are part of the Council of Library Resources.
Do they have a website?
I'm sure they do.
Okay, I'll find it.
And they did a video.
I'm trying to remember the name of the video.
I'll go to Washington in two weeks to L.C.
and see Diane Kresch down there at L.C.
Preservation.
Yeah.
But it was one of the problems, and I'll sort of back into what we were talking about.
One of the, you know, everybody is looking on the digital library as the, it's going to solve all of our problems.
It's going to make, give us instant access worldwide over to anything that's available anywhere.
And we are just now beginning to start to grapple with the problem of how do you make these materials available on an ongoing basis for the foreseeable future.
We have books printed in the 15th century that are just as good now as they were 500 years ago.
And you open them up and it looked like they were published yesterday.
And we don't need any computers or machines or anything else
to read them.
They're just there and you open it and you read it.
The ultimate book technology or the ultimate technology doesn't need electricity, doesn't need and so on.
We have no idea whether 500 years from now people are going to be able to read the digital resources that we're creating right now.
We can take it as a given that the technology will change
We're running into the problem that dictaphone belts that were used in the 40s and the 50s, we can't read them anymore.
The media is still good, but we don't have the machines.
You have that with a lot of computer stuff on cards.
That's right.
Punched cards.
We've got punched cards.
We've got stuff that is in WordPerfect 2.1.
The current programs of WordPerfect won't read that material.
And essentially, it's lost.
And you have stuff on big floppy disks, and the computers aren't even made with slides.
That's right.
I mean, just simple little things like that.
And when I started, when I did my catalog of the medieval manuscripts in Hispanic society, I, in fact, used a hard-wired word processor that used 8-inch floppy disks that could hold 64K.
and it had a 16K memory, and I thought it was the greatest thing I ever saw.
You know, as a medievalist, towards the end of this, you have to give me, because I'm really planning, I'm going to Seville, you mentioned, you gave me the names of some people I should see, and I also plan to do the great Renaissance libraries of Italy, and maybe you can give me some ideas of people and places, because I really would love to,
on your expertise in that area, because I also do have libraries through history.
So go ahead.
I'm sorry.
So one of the things that we need to start to deal with is how do we structure our libraries so that, in fact, we can migrate this digital information from one technology to the next.
And everybody seems to be fairly concerned and fairly in agreement
that we're going to have to migrate this stuff.
We cannot keep all of the generations of technology available and working and functioning from now in the foreseeable future.
And that means we have to have repositories that are set up to do that process.
So you're working on that now here?
We're not.
Well, we're worried about it, but we don't have a solution to it.
But we're working on it, I think, is what I said.
No, we're not even really working on it.
Right now, what we're focusing on is how do we get material from paper into digital form.
And right now, we're putting it on servers, and we're making it available over the world like that.
We haven't really... We're not...
that are not organized yet for the next step of this process.
But I do think that we're never going to replace, I don't think, and certainly in my lifetime and yours, we're not going to replace the book as a, you know, sit down.
If I want to read a monograph or a novel, I'm going to read it in the book.
I'm not going to sit down in front of a computer screen and read it in the future.
Okay, but there is a lot of,
I know that in particular here at the University of California, Berkeley, that the university has made a decision to channel resources, money, away from the acquisition of special collections and building on collections, and to maybe kind of those resources, certainly for the next 10 or 20 years.
This is what I've understood, I've heard, you know, from sources, and that there's a lot of concern that the focus
A phrase one person uses is a paradigm shift or something?
There is a paradigm shift going on.
That is absolutely true.
Right now we're spending about 3% of our collections budget on digital resources.
Just 3%?
For the whole university or for...?
For the general library.
Okay.
But the collections budget is about $8 million a year.
That's not for acquisitions.
This is for acquisitions.
You're spending $8 million a year?
Yeah.
Really?
I mean, this is comparable to, it's probably slightly less than, I mean, it's comparable to what the other major research libraries are spending.
Less than Harvard, certainly less than Harvard.
But that's pretty good, though.
Eight million is not bad.
Yeah, but it's not enough.
And the real problem is that the, you should, one of the people you might want to talk to about this is Brian Hawkins at Brown.
Which is close to me, to Brian Hawkins, and where do we see it?
At Brown.
I don't know what his title is these days.
What department, though?
Well, he's in the administration.
Okay.
Because he used to be in charge of academic computing.
But he has written a couple of very, very interesting papers where he's sort of charting the percentage of the world's published information that research libraries in the United States are able to buy.
His figure is that in 1980, we were acquiring collectively some roughly 6% of what's published in the world.
The research libraries, institutional universities.
Right, right.
It was the major players, including places like New York Public and Library of Congress.
So 94% is not being accounted for.
It's not being accounted for.
By the year 2000, he estimates that we will be getting less than 1%.
of what's published, because there's just been this enormous explosion.
As the third world countries bring their medium incomes up and there's more interest in larger educational systems and so on and so forth, there's just more publishing going on.
How would you define a paradigm shift?
I think the paradigm shift that we're looking at is, in fact, from print to digital technology.
And we're going through exactly the same thing that we went through from the manuscript to the printed book.
And it's fascinating to think about the stages that this has gone through.
If you take the 15th century and the 20th century and you look at it decade by decade, printing was invented in the 1440s by Gutenberg.
The computer was invented in the 1940s.
mostly as a result of the Second World War.
It started to become generalized in the 1450s.
In the 1950s, when Thomas Watson Sr.
got IBM in computing, he thought that there might be a market for tin computers in the United States.
This was in the early 50s.
And that's roughly about the same period when the printing press began to
It extended itself from Mainzen to other German cities.
The computer went international.
The printing press went international in the 1460s.
The computer went international in the 1960s.
I mean, you can follow through the progression.
It's very neat.
Yeah.
And the first printers did the same thing that the first computer people did.
and to some extent we're still doing it, the first printers thought that they had found a new way to do manuscripts, a better way.
But they didn't really think through the changes, and it took them a while to figure out that some of the things that you did with manuscripts you didn't have to do with a printed book.
Are you talking about technical changes or cultural changes?
No, I'm talking about technical changes.
In other words, by the end of the 15th century, the technology for manuscript production had been highly
No, it was.
It was an industry.
So, you had one guy, you had people who prepared the parchment or paper.
Oh, it was institutionalized.
Yeah.
And you had scribes who did the writing, and then you had illuminators who came in and did the illumination.
Lubricators and all the other stuff.
And so, for example, you had these beautiful illuminated initials at the beginning of each chapter.
On the printed books?
No, on the manuscripts.
But they even did that with some of the very early printed books.
But they would leave these, the scribe would leave a, you know, a square place.
So the other guy could do it.
Yeah, and they would do this with the printed books as well.
They would leave these blanks, and then they would sell it, and then the owner, the new owner, would hire an illuminator to come in and do the
To give it the sense, it's like fake leather, synthetic leather.
No, this is what books ought to look like.
They ought to have illuminations, especially if they're deluxe things.
And it took them a while to figure out, God, you know, we could do woodcuts and we could have the same effect.
And so the whole process of running it through the illuminator defeated one of the purposes of the printed book, which was to...
reduce the cost and also increase the diffusion and dissemination and speed it up.
And we did the same thing with computers.
In other words, we used the computer to produce printed books.
That was the first use of the computer publishing industry, you know, the word processing.
Well, we wouldn't, you know, when you do word processing, you're not really interested in the file.
All you're interested in is that paper printout that you get that you can then
And the publishers, for a long time, were not interested in the tapes that they created that ran the typesetting machinery.
All they were interested was in the printed book.
And now we're realizing that what used to be that means is an end in itself.
That the machine-readable text is, for many purposes, much more useful than the printed book.
And if you look at the diffusion of information
The digital resource, the electronic resource, the electronic encyclopedia, the census materials, or the book of facts, all of this stuff is much more useful on the web and electronic form than it is sitting on a shelf in the library.
So that's the paradigm shift.
The transmittal of information is no longer dependent on print technology.
It's going to be the electronic media.
But we're still, we have a print mentality focus.
It's going to take us a long time to realize that we don't have to do things the way we did with the printed books.
And we're still struggling with this.
Copyright.
The real problems are not technical.
They're legal.
And economic.
How do publishers...
make money from these kinds of information.
Yeah, do I want my book posted on the Internet?
That's right.
No, that's right.
Well?
One word answer.
I want people to buy it.
It took us several hundred years to work out the relationship between authors, printers, publishers, and readers in a printed book.
I hope it doesn't take us that long to figure out.
But this is the paradigm shift.
Because it doesn't affect simply print versus digital.
It is the whole body of people who create information, sell information, use information.
How about, we are sitting in the Bancroft Library, where you have one extraordinary special collections of manuscript material, just print books.
Let's also be clear that you have unique objects here.
That's right.
We've got the archives of the Sierra Club.
And I know what you have, so I don't want to waste... Pat Brown's paper, you know, just all sorts of... But what are you doing?
I mean, you only have so much money coming from the state of California.
Right.
Totally inadequate.
Totally inadequate, I'm sure.
And you mentioned that you have $8 million available, but... This is for the entire library.
I understand.
Okay.
Okay, that's very interesting.
I'm glad you made that point.
How about a philosophy for acquisitions of special collections?
Are you now building on strengths?
Do you have an alert eye for creating collections for scholars who might be interested in a subject, or do you see your role now as more or less providing material for stuff that's requested?
We are a special collection of library, and our focus is on primary sources and unique material.
And so we are going to be continuing to do that.
In fact, we're just in the process of going through a collection policy review to figure out where should we be focusing our energy.
We cannot collect everything.
So in collaboration with the faculty, we're sitting down and saying, all right, our Bancroft's focus is the history of California and the American West.
what are the major issues that we should be collecting material in?
And one of these subject areas is the environment.
You know, the water wars in California have been, it's a major theme starting in the 19th century and going on.
And so we are going to continue to look at water, land use, the environment, the struggle between the public good and private enterprise developers,
All of these kinds of things.
Are you talking specifically about primary materials?
We're talking about primary source materials.
We're talking about the papers of people like David Brower, who's the former president of the Sierra Club.
We're talking about company records to the extent that we can get access to them.
Another major area that we're looking at is biotechnology, which was basically invented in the Bay Area.
The people who created that industry are still around, still active.
So you're actually working?
We're working with them.
Can you name any specifics?
Well, the... William Rudder and Stanley Cohen.
Stanley Cohen is a professor at Stanford.
William Rudder is a... R-U-T-T.
R-U-T-T-E-R.
He's a professor at UC San Francisco.
They created...
They invented recombinant DNA technology, which is the basis for the biotechnology industry.
And Rudder was the founder, one of the founders of Chiron.
Of which?
Of what?
Chiron.
I don't... Chiron and Ginentech were the two original biotech firms.
And I get them both confused about who was in charge of this one.
Well, I'll do a search.
But, and these companies are now about 20 years old, so we are going to be working with them to set up records management programs to make sure that their company archives remain in existence.
And hopefully they'll come to the Bancroft Library at some point when they are no longer... Okay.
And you said this is a review of, what did you call that review?
Collection policy.
Is this something that's being...
formulated now, or do you have it?
It's being formulated right now.
We're going through the process.
We had a series of meetings with faculty, mostly with faculty members, both here and in other UC campuses.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
And now we're taking the results of those interviews and putting them into a formal statement of, this is where we're going to be putting our efforts.
Is this something I can get when it's... Sure.
When do you think that'll be?
It's sometime this semester.
Yeah.
So I'll plug it.
Sure.
You know, I'd be curious, you know, there is, people have expressed anxiety out there, and, you know, we'll hear from people here that there is some concern among some faculty, not specific, but certainly, I don't have any names, but, you know, that maybe the focus of the library, not just the background, but the university policy is shifting away from that.
It's, the question is that
I'm not going to be naive about this.
Clearly, you know that people are concerned.
Sure.
But there is a finite amount of money available.
Increasingly, information resources are going to be available only in digital format.
The inflation factor in the cost of printed materials is going up between 12% and 15% a year.
You know, you sort of look at these scenarios and you try and play them out.
If we continued to buy every cereal in the area of science technology that we currently buy, and simply cut everything else so that we could protect that collection, within five years, we would not be buying any journals in the humanities or social sciences.
just tough decisions after you make or something.
And so we have been going through, and most major libraries, with the possible exception of Harvard, go through every year or every other year a serials cutting program.
You divide up the serials by subject area, and you talk to the faculty and say, look, we have to cut 5% of the cost in this particular area.
Which are the least important serials?
And of course the faculty says,
They're all important.
You can't cut any of them.
And that just simply throws the burden back on the library.
You say, we're going to do it, and if you don't help us, then you're just going to have to live with the consequences.
So you've got the cost for print publication is increasing.
We can't afford to buy everything we have.
And at the same time, an increasing amount of material is coming in digital format.
Sometimes you've got both, and the publishers are saying, well,
we'll provide the electronic version of this journal if you continue to buy the print journal.
And we'll only charge you 120% of the print publication price.
What percent?
120%.
In other words, 20% more.
And most libraries are saying no.
We'll either buy one or the other, and we prefer to have the electronic journal, and we'll cancel the print journal.
And we'll pay for the electronics.
With the hope that it will be cheaper because you don't have the distribution prices.
And what this means is basically you buy a subscription and you buy access, a site license, to their website.
What does this mean?
What if we cancel the subscription after two years or three years?
Do we still have access to that same...
As you had before.
As we had before, because before we bought the print publication, we had it.
It was a physical copy.
Yeah.
Well, it might behoove you to do a printout as it comes out.
Oh, the stuff as it comes out.
Which would be kind of funny, wouldn't it?
Yeah.
But this is, I mean, you know, people are worried, okay, what's, how, and it varies by discipline.
This is changing much more rapidly in the sciences than it is in the humanities.
And it's much more rapidly in this country than abroad.
So the people in the foreign languages, like me, are really terrified that as we put more and more of our resources into digital stuff, that we're going to give short shrift to the stuff that's published in Latin America, or in Spain, or in Southeast Asia.
And it's going to take a longer time for those publications to come into digital form.
It is exceedingly important.
I guess what we're seeing then is that all research libraries are really having to determine precisely in a very fine way what they're doing, what they're actually going to specialize in.
I guess the days of covering the world are over.
They never existed.
You know, the Farmington Plan, does that bring me to go?
No, but it sounds like something I love right off the bat.
This was an attempt in 1948.
The heads of the major research libraries got together in Farmington, Connecticut.
What's the school there?
Miss somebody's school.
Farmington, Connecticut?
And basically, they divided up the world among themselves.
Come on.
I think they're going to find this.
What's in Farmington?
That's not the University of Connecticut.
It's not Trinity.
It's not, well, there's so many schools in Connecticut.
You need to talk to somebody who has a better knowledge of, you know, the organization.
They've divided up the world?
Yeah, and the idea was... Under the auspices of whom?
It was the, I assume it was the research, not that it wouldn't have been a research library if it didn't exist, but the Association of
What is it?
Research Libraries.
A.R.L., Association of Research Libraries.
I'll find it.
But it was the idea that each library would take responsibility for a particular country.
And so the assurance was that at least one copy of everything published in the world would be somewhere in the United States.
And I can't remember which countries, which libraries did which country.
I've never heard of it.
I love it.
And it wasn't that, you know, you couldn't buy, you know, if Harvard decided they wanted to buy everything, well, that's wonderful.
But if they decided they were going to drop Costa Rica, there would be some place in the country that would buy everything published in Costa Rica.
It was sort of a, it was one of the first attempts at that.
1948?
Yeah.
Wow.
And again, isn't this perfect?
It was almost 50 years ago.
How has the world changed?
No, it collapsed fairly quickly.
Sounds like a league of patients.
Well, I mean, it turned out that it would be a much larger scale problem than people thought.
How did you find out about this one?
Oh, I took a bibliography class when I was in college.
This was 30 years ago.
Now, as your background, you're a medievalist, I know.
It is interesting that so many...
people who direct libraries, like Paul Leclerc or Martin Gregorian or James Billington, come from other disciplines, history or whatever.
Yeah.
Libraries are too important to leave to librarians.
Is that a statement you want to make?
No, that's not a statement I want to be quoted on.
But there is a perspective that comes in.
Yeah.
And do you have a comment on that at all?
Well, I think that it's the perspective of the user.
I mean, librarians do tend to focus on
inside, organizing the materials and the processes and things like this.
And the user looks at it from how well are you serving your constituencies.
Ideally, the librarian should be concerned about that too, but just simply it's in the nature of things, in the ordinary routine, you know, trying to figure out what vendors to buy books from and how to get them cataloged and so on and so forth.
that there's sometimes a tendency to overlook the end user.
Do you have a sense of your constituency?
I think, I mean, as far as I'm concerned, my constituency is the faculty and students on the Berkeley campus.
And this is, there's a tension here because... Attention?
Attention, because Bancroft serves an external
off-campus constituency as well.
It's the major center for the history of California and the American West in the United States, although people of the Beinecke might dispute that, or the Huntington.
And so we have people coming from all over the country.
Half of our users actually come from off-campus.
But we are not a private library.
We are part of the University of California.
which in turn is part of the state of California, and we serve the citizens of the state of California.
And also, but you also certainly welcome scholars.
Absolutely.
Outside scholars.
And I think probably deep down you want to attract the outside scholar.
Sure.
But if it comes to a conflict between do I serve the external scholar or do I serve the faculty and students of the Berkeley campus,
I serve the faculty and students in the Berkeley campus.
Now, this is not a popular position with some of the curators who have been around here for 20 and 25 years.
In point of fact, it very rarely comes down to an either-or choice.
Well, in getting any acquired material, though, if you had a chance to get a really great collection, but if it doesn't really fit into the
you probably got a pass on it, right?
Yes.
I mean, for example, if someone offered us—and this happens quite frequently—a major collection of African materials, we would probably—well, we have a number of Africanist faculty, and they have come up with a proposal that we should collect materials having to do with the transition from apartheid in South Africa.
It's just totally out of, what we call, out of field for Macron.
But it is, in fact, a serious scholarly interest, and so we've come up with a Solomonic proposal.
We will serve as custodians for this collection.
Solomonic proposal.
Solomonic... Okay, I gotcha.
Well, that can be transcribed.
I've got to know what you're saying.
Solomonic decision, whatever it is.
We will serve as custodians, and we'll process it and make it available, but we're not going to actively collect it.
In other words, we're not going to be writing to people in South Africa and saying, give us this stuff.
Pursuing it.
Pursuing it, yeah.
We will accept it.
It's passive, not active.
Yeah.
Whereas in some areas like California.
It's benevolent.
Right.
But in California, we actively pursue it.
But if you had an African American community in San Francisco, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Absolutely.
And there are kinds of the Black Panther Party.
That's right.
Well, Sanford got the Black Panther Party.
We have Aldous Cleaver's papers, for example.
And that you really want.
Yeah.
That's important.
Yes.
Yeah.
So, African Americans in California, and especially in the Bay Area, absolutely.
We very aggressively try to go out for those sorts of resources.
Once upon a time, and maybe even still upon a time, you would judge a university's reputation by the number of books it had.
And Harvard, I think... And we still do.
The Association of Research Library publishes statistics every year.
on how many volumes were acquired, how many serials... And you're cognizant of these.
Oh, absolutely.
And you'd like to know where you stand.
Yeah.
And we have, up until the budget crisis hit in California, we were, by common consent, the number two university library in the country after Harvard.
You mean combined with UCLA?
No.
Berkeley.
That's Berkeley.
Berkeley alone is number two?
Yeah.
Up until 1990.
We have been slipping down the scales because we have
because of the budget cuts.
You would need to look at the ARL statistics for this year.
I think the last I heard is that we're number four.
You're dropping?
We're dropping.
Who's ahead of you?
UCLA.
And I don't know who number two is right out of hand.
That would be interesting to find out.
You've got to run in a few minutes, and I want you to be there for your meeting.
Well, the meeting will come to me, so we'll just continue until they show up.
One of the prerogatives.
Yeah.
But there are two things that I'd like to follow up on.
Okay.
One is that because of this crisis in costs of publication material, all libraries are cutting, and they're cutting from the edges.
In other words, they're cutting the rare
and less used materials.
And so collections across the country are becoming more homogenized.
That's bad.
You know, we're all collecting the same kinds of stuff.
And we need, we have been in discussions, for example, on how can we do some variant of the Farmington Planet, at least on
regional levels so that, and we do this with Stanford.
We could do more of it, and we should do more of it.
But we'll decide, for example, well, we won't collect Uruguay, and you'll do Uruguay, and you won't collect... Yeah.
And in fact, right now, we're working on a proposal focused on Mexico with Stanford, Berkeley, and the University of Texas at Austin to split up Mexico this way.
Stanford, HSC,
No, it would be, actually, it's the... Oh, that's right.
No, it would be HSE.
They have, I forgot the name of the Latin American Library at Texas.
Texas, Stanford, and Berkeley.
Gonna split up Mexico.
Yeah.
So we'll focus, for example, on Northwest Mexico, Baja California, and that area.
Texas will do Northeast Mexico, Stanford will do Southern Mexico, and we haven't quite figured out what to do with Mexico City.
And we'll systematically collect papers from non-governmental organizations and so on and so on and so on.
So that between the three of us, we will have a comprehensive coverage.
And thereby giving the faculty in all three places more than if we just tried to, everybody tried to do New Mexico by ourselves.
In terms of a place like Bancroft, where we collect archival materials primarily,
We haven't figured out what do we do with digital archival materials.
What do we do with email?
That's where the business of the university is being conducted these days.
And it's not paper memos, which we, you know, we have university archives here.
And so every year or so we get a, you know,
X number of boxes from the office to the president of background material and memos and letters and correspondence and whatnot.
We're missing the email.
We have to figure out how do we collect the information which is generated in the process of doing business, which are the business records of corporations, institutions, individuals.
So it's going to require everybody who gets an email to make a copy of it.
Well, we do this automatically.
I do.
I say wrong myself.
Well, no, but I mean, as an institution, because it's all on one file server, and so, and typically... Yeah, but I can erase what I get, too.
Yeah, which you think you can, but some, but for example... But you don't necessarily erase what you send.
That's right.
So there is a copy on the other end.
Right.
Or copies that I receive, if it's on a general server...
Even though I might erase it and say, well, I'm... The server keeps it.
The server keeps it.
And that's taped off every day, and we keep those tapes for 30 days, and then we recycle them.
So we can always, you know, if we have a crash, we can always go back to... But then maybe you have to keep it.
Maybe we have to keep it.
What does that imply?
It implies 50 years from now we have to have Eudora, or whatever email...
software program we're using, or we have to figure out some way, some generic way of saving this stuff so that 20 years from now we can go back and look at it.
Do we want everything?
That's another question.
Charles, meet me at 1.15 for lunch.
Yeah.
That's going to be in there.
Right.
I mean, there is this problem of sifting out, and that's what the curators do with paper stuff.
I mean, we will get archived
the papers of an individual, for example.
You did say briefly, and I have to go see Mr. Linen, too.
He's right close.
He's right next door.
Maybe this question is better addressed to him, but we, you know, if books aren't read in three or four or five years, do you give him a look and say, maybe it goes to the depository?
It goes to the depository.
We do
You know, we do get rid of stuff, but, you know, we don't really like to because... Take scientific literature.
I mean, it's got a shelf life of about five years, and after that it's just... It's in terms of... Well, in terms of the cutting edge of research, it's just not used very much.
But then it becomes a source for history of science and technology.
Okay.
So... You know, there's a lot of... A lot of these monographs maybe are...
it is argued because they are so perishable, maybe these things are better done online.
Right.
Exactly.
And because they're changing, and they're so expensive to buy.
Yeah.
And the monograph has... It's $140 for one stupid little book.
Well, yeah.
And, you know, the press runs are... One of the reasons is that
As libraries cut back, the press runs get smaller, the average price per volume goes up.
I mean, the average press run for a monograph, like most of the university presses, has gone down from about 500 copies to about 300 copies.
And something like that, it probably makes more sense to put it up on the internet and read it.
I didn't interview you.
Do you know Kenny Carpenter at Harvard?
I know who he is.
He wanted to actually do, it's only this, because Harvard
to do a monograph, to do it online as opposed to publishing.
Well, Stanford's already done this.
They got a grant from Mellon to put 10 of their books on Latin American studies and put them up online, basically as a study.
Have they done it yet?
They're in the process of doing it.
They have some of the material up already.
Have you talked to Mike Keller?
Last year.
Okay.
And I think it's probably time to... Yeah, you might want to revisit and find out how things have changed with the high-wired press and...
But I do have him.
In fact, right after I talked to you, I went on to see him last year.
I thought this would be Stanford, but it's become so big.
I've been to Cornell, and I've been to, quickly, medieval stuff.
Somebody on Seville.
Anybody in Italy want to suggest?
Seville is the Archive of the Indies, and this is all of the documentation of the... There's a brand new book on that, by the way.
Brand new.
It just came in.
I got it.
It's a review copy.
Beautiful book on the Archive of the Indies.
on Dome Press.
I wanted to email you the thing on it when I got there.
I would really appreciate that.
Okay.
You have an email here.
The names I gave you are no longer operative because these people were all fired because the government changed.
Okay.
And the current director is a woman named ... That's fine.
Who would you ... I guess you were telling me somebody who's knowledgeable on the Columbus Library and Seville, too.
This is my colleague, Arthur Askins, who is on the Berkeley campus.
He's here?
Yes.
A-S-K-I-N-S?
Right.
In what department?
The Spanish department.
I probably won't get a chance to see, but I can probably follow him.
And this is regarding the... And this is regarding the Library of Columbus's son, which was the largest private library in Europe in the 16th century.
Yeah, I've got to go there.
His number is 841-
5797.
And he could tell me about it, about its significance.
Yes, absolutely.
It's a very fun book.
Yeah, yeah.
It's 11.
I've got to go see Mr. Lyman.
Yes.
We're doing digital, we're digitizing medieval manuscripts and things like this, too, and so I can give you, yeah, and as a matter of fact, I can give you a URL.
All right.
He says, as Nick gets worried about it, he says, what?
Oh, really?
Well, the British Library has turned the page.
They're putting up the Lydisfar and Gospels and Beowulf.
Well, we're interested in this, but we're also very, very focused on setting standards.
We're trying to create standards for this kind of stuff.
Precisely to make... You said I could grab some of this stuff here, right?
Here's the digital scriptorium.
project that we're working on with.
It's a research project that we're doing with Columbia, and that we hope will be in collaboration with the European libraries eventually, to make this material available over the web for comparative purposes.
It's created a total scholarly environment.
Sunsite.Berkeley.
S-U-N-S-I-T-E.Berkeley.
Capital Berkeley.
Capital E-E-U-X-R-E.
C-I-H-D-U.
And slash script card.
Okay.
Super.
Can I call you?
Sure.
Absolutely.
Yes.
I mean, we obviously just scratched the surface here.